
From hales@math.lsa.umich.edu Wed Aug 19 02:43:02 1998
Date: Sun, 9 Aug 1998 09:54:56 -0400 (EDT)
From: Tom Hales <hales@math.lsa.umich.edu>
To: 

Subject: Kepler conjecture


Dear colleagues,


I have started to distribute copies of a series of papers giving a 
solution to the Kepler conjecture, the oldest problem in discrete
geometry.  These results are still preliminary in the sense
that they have not been refereed and have not even been submitted
for publication, but the proofs are to the best of my
knowledge correct and complete.

Nearly four hundred years ago, Kepler asserted that 
no packing of congruent spheres can have a density greater
than the density of the  face-centered cubic packing.  
This assertion has come to be known as the Kepler conjecture.
In 1900, Hilbert included the Kepler conjecture in his
famous list of mathematical problems.

In a paper published last year in the journal
"Discrete and Computational Geometry," (DCG), I
 published a detailed plan describing
how the Kepler conjecture might be proved.  This approach
differs significantly from earlier approaches to this
problem by making extensive use of computers.
L. Fejes T'oth was the first to suggest the use of computers.)
The proof relies extensively on methods from the theory of
global optimization, linear programming, and interval arithmetic.


The full proof appears in a series of papers totaling well over
250 pages.  The computer files containing the computer code and data
files for combinatorics, interval arithmetic, and linear
programs require over 3 gigabytes of space for storage.

Samuel P. Ferguson, who finished his Ph.D. last year at the
University of Michigan last year under my direction, has
contributed significantly to this project.

The papers containing the proof are:

An Overview of the Kepler Conjecture, Thomas C. Hales
A Formulation of the Kepler Conjecture, Samuel P. Ferguson and Thomas C.
Hales
Sphere Packings I, Thomas C. Hales (published in DCG, 1997)
Sphere Packings II, Thomas C. Hales (published in DCG, 1997)
Sphere Packings III, Thomas C. Hales
Sphere Packings IV, Thomas C. Hales
Sphere Packings V, Samuel P. Ferguson
The Kepler Conjecture (Sphere Packings VI), Thomas C. Hales

Postscript versions of the papers and more information about
this project can be found at
http://www.math.lsa.umich.edu/~hales

Tom Hales


samf@math.lsa.umich.edu
hales@math.lsa.umich.edu



